---
title: K6
description: K6 is an open-source load testing program for API's via  Javascript.
---

K6 is an open-source load testing program for API's via {{Javascript}}.

## Basics

```bash
$ brew install k6
```

Create a new file, `script.js`,  to hold your basic script:

```javascript
import http from 'k6/http';
import { sleep } from 'k6';

export default function () {
  http.get('https://test.k6.io');
  sleep(1);
};
```

Now run your new test in your terminal with `k6 run script.js`.

## Design

You can design your tests with startup code that runs only once and the defaut function, which will be run over and over for the duration of the test by each virtual user.

```javascript
// init code

export default function() {
  // vu code
}
```

## [Metrics][]

Field | Description
--- | ---
http_req_blocked |Time spent blocked (waiting for a free TCP connection slot) before initiating the request.
http_req_connecting |Time spent establishing TCP connection to the remote host.
http_req_duration |`http_req_sending + http_req_waiting + http_req_receiving`
http_req_failed |The rate of failed requests according to [setResponseCallback](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/setresponsecallback-callback).
http_req_receiving |Time spent receiving response data from the remote host.
http_req_sending |Time spent sending data to the remote host.
http_req_tls_handshaking |Time spent handshaking TLS session with remote host
http_req_waiting |Time spent waiting for response from remote host (a.k.a. \"time to first byte\", or \"TTFB\").
http_reqs |Total requests
iteration_duration |The time it took to complete one full iteration of the default/main function.
iterations |The aggregate number of times the VUs in the test have executed the JS script (the default function).
vus_max |Max possible number of virtual users

## Options

Options can be included in your script as an `export` called `options`:

```javascript
export let options = {
  vus: 10,
  duration: '30s',
};
```

If these options are to be used in a CLI, they should be prefaced with two hyphens and followed directly by their argument.

Flag | Args | Effect
--- | --- | ---
`duration` |n: string formatted as `{number}s`, indicating number of seconds|Duration of test
`vus` |n: integer|Number of virtual users to be utilized in the test

## References

- https://k6.io/docs/getting-started/running-k6/

[Metrics]: https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/metrics/

