from Eric Pearson (@nyloneric): https://gist.github.com/NylonEric/372516f2fe3c9f708d20e7e2f77007cb#file-2021-06-23-md

# June 23, 2021

##

## Overview

Deploy all the things! http://frontendcapstone.com

##

## Log

###

### 10:00om - 2:00am

####

#### Challenge/Motivation

Get repo onto AWS instance and connect through a persistant IP or domain name

####

#### Actions Taken

deploy! set up domain frontendcapstone.com w/ google domains (domains.google.com)

#

# AWS

https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/getting-started/

set up security policy on AWS EC2 I started with everything open and then restricted to port 80 UDP/TCP  traffic for incomming. I also openned ICMP traffic for pinging purposes  as well as ssh port 22 for logging into server.

set up elastic IP so it will persist after reboot/termination

Linux/UNIX instance:

- AMI name: amzn2-ami-hvm-2.0.20210617.0-x86_64-gp2

#

# Logging in:

ssh from local: set permissions to pem file: `chmod 400 hr-nylon-eric.pem`

```
ssh -i hr-nylon-eric.pem ec2-user@ec2-35-172-51-196.compute-1.amazonaws.com
```

Then navigate to and create folder for project:

```
git clone https://github.com/Idakka/Project-Atelier.git
sudo yum install git
```

#

# Setting up Node:

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/setting-up-node-on-ec2-instance.html

```
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.34.0/install.sh | bash
nvm install node
. ~/.nvm/nvm.sh
node -e "console.log('Running Node.js ' + process.version)"
npm install -g npx
```

#

# router/ reverse proxy:

```
sudo amazon-linux-extras install nginx1
sudo service nginx start
```

- message: Redirecting to /bin/systemctl start nginx.service

```
cat /etc/nginx/sites-available/default
```

- this didn't work and I had to go find the etc/nginx/nginx.conf file and edit it with nano: `sudo nano /etc/nginx/nginx.conf`

```
 server { listen 80; server_name tutorial; location / {  proxy_set_header  X-Real-IP  $remote_addr; proxy_set_header  Host        $http_host; proxy_pass        http://127.0.0.1:3000; } }
```

- Most of this config was filled out, Just needed to add the location block and change to port 1234 for our server

#

# link config files

```
sudo service nginx restart
```

- npm start in project folder, need ed to install nodemon

#

# install webpack

```
npm install webpack
npm start
```

- IT WORKS!!!

#

# keep it running:

https://medium.com/hackernoon/tutorial-creating-and-managing-a-node-js-server-on-aws-part-2-5fbdea95f8a1#.mnlkymeti

```
npm i -g pm2
pm2 start tutorial/index.js
```

- To make sure that your PM2 restarts when your server restarts `pm2 startup`
- you will be given a custom string similar to this but specific to your machine, copy that: `sudo env PATH=$PATH:/home/ec2-user/.nvm/versions/node/v16.4.0/bin  /home/ec2-user/.nvm/versions/node/v16.4.0/lib/node_modules/pm2/bin/pm2  startup systemd -u ec2-user --hp /home/ec2-user`

save config with everything running (no nginx at this point) `pm2 save`

```
pm2 start nodemon server/server.js
```

That’s it! You can log out/in to SSH, even restart your server and it will continue to run on port 80.

- To list all processes use `pm2 ls`

#

# nginx persistent:

```
systemctl start nginx
systemctl enable nginx
```

having trouble restarting nginx on reboot, `sudo systemctl enable nginx`

- is supposed to solve it. needed to start nginx/ make persistant and THEN redo the pm process

####

#### Results Observed

I got the app deployed pretty quickly but had to troubleshoot making  the node server and nginx reverse-proxy persist after reboot.